[[messaging]]
== Messaging

=== Background

The messaging layer takes care of the direct peer to peer transfer of
segment batches, acks, segment completion and segment retries to the
relevant virtual peers.

=== Messaging Implementations

The Onyx messaging implementation is pluggable and alternative
implementations can be selected via the `:onyx.messaging/impl`
<<peer-configuration, Peer Configuration>> option.

==== Aeron Messaging

Owing to https://github.com/real-logic/Aeron[Aeron's] high throughput
and low latency, Aeron is the default Onyx messaging implementation.
There are a few relevant considerations when using the Aeron
implementation.

===== Subscription (Connection) Multiplexing

One issue when scaling Onyx to a many node cluster is that every
virtual peer may require a communications channel to any other virtual
peer. As a result, a naive implementation will require up to m*m
connections over the cluster, where m is the number of virtual peers.
By sharing Aeron subscribers between virtual peers on a node, this can
be reduced to n*n connections, where n is the number of nodes. This
reduces the amount of overhead required to maintain connections
between peers, allowing the cluster to scale better as the number of
nodes to increase.

It is worth noting that Aeron subscribers (receivers) must also
generally perform deserialization. Therefore, subscribers may become
CPU bound by the amount of deserializaton work that needs to be
performed. In order to reduce this effect, multiple subscribers can be
instantiated per node. This can be tuned via
`:onyx.messaging.aeron/subscriber-count` in <<peer-configuration, Peer
Configuration>>. As increasing the number of subscribers may lead back
to an undesirable growth in the number of connections between nodes,
each node will only choose one subscription to communicate through.
The choice of subscriber is calculated via a hash of the combined IPs
of the communicating nodes, in order to consistently spread the use of
subscribers over the cluster.

Clusters which perform a large proportion of the time serializing
should consider increasing the subscriber count. As a general guide,
`cores = virtual peers + subscribers`.

===== Connection Short Circuiting

When virtual peers are co-located on the same node, messaging will
bypass the use of Aeron and directly communicate the message without any
use of the network and without any serialization. Therefore, performance
benchmarks performed on a single node can be very misleading.

The <<peer-configuration, Peer Configuration>> option,
`:onyx.messaging/allow-short-circuit?` is provided for the purposes of
more realistic performance testing on a single node.

===== Port Use

The Aeron messaging implementation will use the port configured via
`:onyx.messaging/peer-port`. This _UDP port_ must be unfirewalled.

===== Media Driver

Aeron requires a media driver to be used on each node. Onyx provides
an embedded media driver for local testing, however use of the
embedded driver is not recommended in production. The embedded driver
can be configured via the `:onyx.messaging.aeron/embedded-driver?`
<<peer-configuration, Peer Configuration>> option.

When using Aeron messaging in production, a media driver should be
created in another java process. You can do this via the following code
snippet, or by using the
https://github.com/real-logic/Aeron=media-driver-packaging[Aeron
distribution].

[source,clojure]
----
(ns your-app.aeron-media-driver
  (:require [clojure.core.async :refer [chan <!!]])
  (:import [uk.co.real_logic.aeron Aeron$Context]
           [uk.co.real_logic.aeron.driver MediaDriver MediaDriver$Context ThreadingMode]))

(defn -main [& args]
  (let [ctx (doto (MediaDriver$Context.))
        media-driver (MediaDriver/launch ctx)]
    (println "Launched the Media Driver. Blocking forever...")
    (<!! (chan))))
----

===== Configuration Options

Aeron is independently configurable via Java properties (e.g.
`JAVA_OPTS="-Daeron.mtu.length=16384"`). Configuration of these may
cause different performance characteristics, and certain options may
need to be configured in order to communicate large segments between
peers.

Documentation for these configuration options can be found in
https://github.com/real-logic/Aeron/wiki/Configuration-Options[Aeron's
documentation].
