[[what-does-onyx-offer]]
== What does Onyx offer?

In this chapter, I'll enumerate and explain the reasons why we built
Onyx.

=== An Information Model

Information models are often superior to APIs, and almost always better
than DSLs. The hyper-flexibility of a data structure literal allows Onyx
workflows and catalogs to be constructed __at a distance__, meaning on
another machine, in a different language, by another program, etc.

The information model for an Onyx workflow has the distinct advantage
that it's possible to compile _other_ workflow representations (perhaps
a datalog or SQL query) into the workflow that Onyx understands. The
<<information-model,Information Model>> chapter describes a target for data structure
compilation.

=== Temporal Decoupling

To the extent that Onyx places data at the highest importance, very few
Onyx constructs actually need to be generated at the same time as
program deployment or peer registration. Programs can create workflows,
drop them to a database, and pull them out at a later time without any
problems.

=== Elimination of Macros

Macros are a tremendously powerful tool, but are often inappropriate for
end-user consumption of an API. Onyx goes beyond Storm's `defbolt` and
`defspout` by making vanilla Clojure functions shine. These functions
need no context to execute and do not require any dynamic bindings. They
receive _all_ information that they need via parameters, which are
injected by Onyx's task lifecycles.

=== Plain Clojure Functions

To the same point above, we want plain Clojure functions to be the
building blocks for application logic. Onyx's functions can be tested
directly without any special test runner.

=== Testing Without Mocking

In general, your design is in trouble when you've reached for
`with-redefs` or something along those lines to mock functions. Onyx
places a high importance around programming against interfaces, and even
more-so around putting space in-between small components with channels.
Onyx programs can be tested in development mode, and moved to production
mode with only a small configuration file change. If you'd like to
change your input or output plugins, all you need to do is re-associate
the catalog entry with something like an in-memory plugin. No interface
mocking code required.

=== Easy Parameterization of Workflows

It's particularly telling that many compute frameworks don't offer an
easy way to parameterize workflows. Onyx puts space between the caller
and the function definition. Parameterize tasks inside the catalog, and
update the catalog entry at will. Additionally, Onyx allows peers to
spin up their own parameters at boot-up time.

=== Transparent Code Reuse for Batch and Streaming

Onyx uses the notion of a _sentinel value_ to transparently switch
between streaming and batching modes. This makes it really easy to be
able to reuse the same code for both batch and streaming computations.

=== Aspect Orientation

Clojure functions again serve as a huge win.
https://github.com/MichaelDrogalis/dire[Dire] is a library that supports
aspects, meaning you can keep your application logic airtight away from
logging, preconditions, and error handling.

=== AOT Nothing

Onyx AOT's absolutely nothing on your behalf. When you're ready to stand
your jar up, simply uberjar and start executing on the target machine.
Hadoop and Storm cause dependency hell (In Storm's case, you're
restricted to a particular version of Clojure because you're locked in
by the Executor) by providing their own dependencies on top of yours.
Onyx won't mess with your dependencies.

You can, however, AOT Onyx yourself to speed up compilation times.
